Title: Lawyer LLaMA Technical Report
Summary:   Large Language Models (LLMs), like LLaMA, have exhibited remarkable
performance across various tasks. Nevertheless, when deployed to specific
domains such as law or medicine, the models still confront the challenge of a
deficiency in domain-specific knowledge and an inadequate capability to
leverage that knowledge to resolve domain-related problems. In this paper, we
propose a new framework to adapt LLMs to specific domains and build Lawyer
LLaMA, a legal domain LLM, based on this framework. Specifically, we inject
domain knowledge during the continual training stage and teach the model to
learn professional skills using properly designed supervised fine-tuning tasks.
Moreover, to alleviate the hallucination problem during the model's generation,
we add a retrieval module and extract relevant legal articles before the model
answers any queries. When learning domain-specific skills, we find that
experts' experience is much more useful than experiences distilled from
ChatGPT, where hundreds of expert-written data outperform tens of thousands of
ChatGPT-generated ones. We will release our model and data.


Title: Label Supervised LLaMA Finetuning
Summary:   The recent success of Large Language Models (LLMs) has gained significant
attention in both academia and industry. Substantial efforts have been made to
enhance the zero- and few-shot generalization capabilities of open-source LLMs
through finetuning. Currently, the prevailing approach is instruction-tuning,
which trains LLMs to complete real-world tasks by generating responses guided
by natural language instructions. It is worth noticing that such an approach
may underperform in sequence and token classification tasks. Unlike text
generation tasks, classification tasks have a limited label space, where
precise label prediction is more appreciated than generating diverse and
human-like responses. Prior research has unveiled that instruction-tuned LLMs
cannot outperform BERT, prompting us to explore the potential of leveraging
latent representations from LLMs for supervised label prediction. In this
paper, we introduce a label-supervised adaptation for LLMs, which aims to
finetuning the model with discriminant labels. We evaluate this approach with
Label Supervised LLaMA (LS-LLaMA), based on LLaMA-2-7B, a relatively
small-scale LLM, and can be finetuned on a single GeForce RTX4090 GPU. We
extract latent representations from the final LLaMA layer and project them into
the label space to compute the cross-entropy loss. The model is finetuned by
Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) to minimize this loss. Remarkably, without intricate
prompt engineering or external knowledge, LS-LLaMA substantially outperforms
LLMs ten times its size in scale and demonstrates consistent improvements
compared to robust baselines like BERT-Large and RoBERTa-Large in text
classification. Moreover, by removing the causal mask from decoders, LS-unLLaMA
achieves the state-of-the-art performance in named entity recognition (NER).
Our work will shed light on a novel approach to adapting LLMs for various
downstream tasks.


Title: LLAMA: Leveraging Learning to Automatically Manage Algorithms
Summary:   Algorithm portfolio and selection approaches have achieved remarkable
improvements over single solvers. However, the implementation of such systems
is often highly customised and specific to the problem domain. This makes it
difficult for researchers to explore different techniques for their specific
problems. We present LLAMA, a modular and extensible toolkit implemented as an
R package that facilitates the exploration of a range of different portfolio
techniques on any problem domain. It implements the algorithm selection
approaches most commonly used in the literature and leverages the extensive
library of machine learning algorithms and techniques in R. We describe the
current capabilities and limitations of the toolkit and illustrate its usage on
a set of example SAT problems.


Title: Challenges and opportunities integrating LLAMA into AdePT
Summary:   Particle transport simulations are a cornerstone of high-energy physics
(HEP), constituting a substantial part of the computing workload performed in
HEP. To boost the simulation throughput and energy efficiency, GPUs as
accelerators have been explored in recent years, further driven by the
increasing use of GPUs on HPCs. The Accelerated demonstrator of electromagnetic
Particle Transport (AdePT) is an advanced prototype for offloading the
simulation of electromagnetic showers in Geant4 to GPUs, and still undergoes
continuous development and optimization. Improving memory layout and data
access is vital to use modern, massively parallel GPU hardware efficiently,
contributing to the challenge of migrating traditional CPU based data
structures to GPUs in AdePT. The low-level abstraction of memory access (LLAMA)
is a C++ library that provides a zero-runtime-overhead data structure
abstraction layer, focusing on multidimensional arrays of nested, structured
data. It provides a framework for defining and switching custom memory mappings
at compile time to define data layouts and instrument data access, making LLAMA
an ideal tool to tackle the memory-related optimization challenges in AdePT.
Our contribution shares insights gained with LLAMA when instrumenting data
access inside AdePT, complementing traditional GPU profiler outputs. We
demonstrate traces of read/write counts to data structure elements as well as
memory heatmaps. The acquired knowledge allowed for subsequent data layout
optimizations.


Title: LLaMA: Open and Efficient Foundation Language Models
Summary:   We introduce LLaMA, a collection of foundation language models ranging from
7B to 65B parameters. We train our models on trillions of tokens, and show that
it is possible to train state-of-the-art models using publicly available
datasets exclusively, without resorting to proprietary and inaccessible
datasets. In particular, LLaMA-13B outperforms GPT-3 (175B) on most benchmarks,
and LLaMA-65B is competitive with the best models, Chinchilla-70B and
PaLM-540B. We release all our models to the research community.


Title: Camoscio: an Italian Instruction-tuned LLaMA
Summary:   In recent years Large Language Models (LLMs) have increased the state of the
art on several natural language processing tasks. However, their accessibility
is often limited to paid API services, posing challenges for researchers in
conducting extensive investigations. On the other hand, while some open-source
models have been proposed by the community, they are typically English-centric
or multilingual without a specific adaptation for the Italian language. In an
effort to democratize the available and open resources for the Italian
language, in this paper we introduce Camoscio: a language model specifically
tuned to follow users' prompts in Italian. Specifically, we finetuned the
smallest variant of LLaMA (7b) with LoRA on a corpus of instruction prompts
translated to Italian via ChatGPT. Results indicate that the model's zero-shot
performance on various downstream tasks in Italian competes favorably with
existing models specifically finetuned for those tasks. All the artifacts
(code, dataset, model) are released to the community at the following url:
https://github.com/teelinsan/camoscio


Title: Code Llama: Open Foundation Models for Code
Summary:   We release Code Llama, a family of large language models for code based on
Llama 2 providing state-of-the-art performance among open models, infilling
capabilities, support for large input contexts, and zero-shot instruction
following ability for programming tasks. We provide multiple flavors to cover a
wide range of applications: foundation models (Code Llama), Python
specializations (Code Llama - Python), and instruction-following models (Code
Llama - Instruct) with 7B, 13B and 34B parameters each. All models are trained
on sequences of 16k tokens and show improvements on inputs with up to 100k
tokens. 7B and 13B Code Llama and Code Llama - Instruct variants support
infilling based on surrounding content. Code Llama reaches state-of-the-art
performance among open models on several code benchmarks, with scores of up to
53% and 55% on HumanEval and MBPP, respectively. Notably, Code Llama - Python
7B outperforms Llama 2 70B on HumanEval and MBPP, and all our models outperform
every other publicly available model on MultiPL-E. We release Code Llama under
a permissive license that allows for both research and commercial use.


Title: Impact of Tokenization on LLaMa Russian Adaptation
Summary:   Latest instruction-tuned large language models (LLM) show great results on
various tasks, however, they often face performance degradation for non-English
input. There is evidence that the reason lies in inefficient tokenization
caused by low language representation in pre-training data which hinders the
comprehension of non-English instructions, limiting the potential of target
language instruction-tuning. In this work we investigate the possibility of
addressing the issue with vocabulary substitution in the context of LLaMa
Russian language adaptation. We explore three variants of vocabulary adaptation
and test their performance on Saiga instruction-tuning and fine-tuning on
Russian Super Glue benchmark. The results of automatic evaluation show that
vocabulary substitution not only improves the model's quality in Russian but
also accelerates fine-tuning (35%) and inference (up to 60%) while reducing
memory consumption. Additional human evaluation of the instruction-tuned models
demonstrates that models with Russian-adapted vocabulary generate answers with
higher user preference than the original Saiga-LLaMa model.


Title: Steering Llama 2 via Contrastive Activation Addition
Summary:   We introduce Contrastive Activation Addition (CAA), an innovative method for
steering language models by modifying activations during their forward passes.
CAA computes ``steering vectors'' by averaging the difference in residual
stream activations between pairs of positive and negative examples of a
particular behavior such as factual versus hallucinatory responses. During
inference, these steering vectors are added at all token positions after the
user's prompt with either a positive or negative coefficient, allowing precise
control over the degree of the targeted behavior. We evaluate CAA's
effectiveness on Llama 2 Chat using both multiple-choice behavioral question
datasets and open-ended generation tasks. We demonstrate that CAA significantly
alters model behavior, outperforms traditional methods like finetuning and
few-shot prompting, and minimally reduces capabilities. Moreover, by employing
various activation space interpretation methods, we gain deeper insights into
CAA's mechanisms. CAA both accurately steers model outputs and also sheds light
on how high-level concepts are represented in Large Language Models (LLMs).


Title: VinaLLaMA: LLaMA-based Vietnamese Foundation Model
Summary:   In this technical report, we present VinaLLaMA, an open-weight,
state-of-the-art (SOTA) Large Language Model for the Vietnamese language, built
upon LLaMA-2 with an additional 800 billion trained tokens. VinaLLaMA not only
demonstrates fluency in Vietnamese but also exhibits a profound understanding
of Vietnamese culture, making it a truly indigenous model. VinaLLaMA-7B-chat,
trained on 1 million high-quality synthetic samples, achieves SOTA results on
key benchmarks, including VLSP, VMLU, and Vicuna Benchmark Vietnamese, marking
a significant advancement in the Vietnamese AI landscape and offering a
versatile resource for various applications.


Title: DRG-LLaMA : Tuning LLaMA Model to Predict Diagnosis-related Group for
  Hospitalized Patients
Summary:   In the U.S. inpatient payment system, the Diagnosis-Related Group (DRG) is
pivotal, but its assignment process is inefficient. The study introduces
DRG-LLaMA, an advanced large language model (LLM) fine-tuned on clinical notes
to enhance DRGs assignment. Utilizing LLaMA as the foundational model and
optimizing it through Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) on 236,192 MIMIC-IV discharge
summaries, our DRG-LLaMA-7B model exhibited a noteworthy macro-averaged F1
score of 0.327, a top-1 prediction accuracy of 52.0%, and a macro-averaged Area
Under the Curve (AUC) of 0.986, with a maximum input token length of 512. This
model surpassed the performance of prior leading models in DRG prediction,
showing a relative improvement of 40.3% and 35.7% in macro-averaged F1 score
compared to ClinicalBERT and CAML, respectively. Applied to base DRG and
complication or comorbidity (CC)/major complication or comorbidity (MCC)
prediction, DRG-LLaMA achieved a top-1 prediction accuracy of 67.8% and 67.5%,
respectively. Additionally, our findings indicate that DRG-LLaMA's performance
correlates with increased model parameters and input context lengths.


Title: LLAMA: The Low-Level Abstraction For Memory Access
Summary:   The performance gap between CPU and memory widens continuously. Choosing the
best memory layout for each hardware architecture is increasingly important as
more and more programs become memory bound. For portable codes that run across
heterogeneous hardware architectures, the choice of the memory layout for data
structures is ideally decoupled from the rest of a program. This can be
accomplished via a zero-runtime-overhead abstraction layer, underneath which
memory layouts can be freely exchanged.
  We present the Low-Level Abstraction of Memory Access (LLAMA), a C++ library
that provides such a data structure abstraction layer with example
implementations for multidimensional arrays of nested, structured data. LLAMA
provides fully C++ compliant methods for defining and switching custom memory
layouts for user-defined data types. The library is extensible with third-party
allocators.
  Providing two close-to-life examples, we show that the LLAMA-generated AoS
(Array of Structs) and SoA (Struct of Arrays) layouts produce identical code
with the same performance characteristics as manually written data structures.
Integrations into the SPEC CPU\textsuperscript{\textregistered} lbm benchmark
and the particle-in-cell simulation PIConGPU demonstrate LLAMA's abilities in
real-world applications. LLAMA's layout-aware copy routines can significantly
speed up transfer and reshuffling of data between layouts compared with naive
element-wise copying.
  LLAMA provides a novel tool for the development of high-performance C++
applications in a heterogeneous environment.


Title: HuaTuo: Tuning LLaMA Model with Chinese Medical Knowledge
Summary:   Large Language Models (LLMs), such as the LLaMA model, have demonstrated
their effectiveness in various general-domain natural language processing (NLP)
tasks. Nevertheless, LLMs have not yet performed optimally in biomedical domain
tasks due to the need for medical expertise in the responses. In response to
this challenge, we propose HuaTuo, a LLaMA-based model that has been
supervised-fine-tuned with generated QA (Question-Answer) instances. The
experimental results demonstrate that HuaTuo generates responses that possess
more reliable medical knowledge. Our proposed HuaTuo model is accessible at
https://github.com/SCIR-HI/Huatuo-Llama-Med-Chinese.


Title: Efficient and Effective Text Encoding for Chinese LLaMA and Alpaca
Summary:   Large Language Models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT and GPT-4, have dramatically
transformed natural language processing research and shown promising strides
towards Artificial General Intelligence (AGI). Nonetheless, the high costs
associated with training and deploying LLMs present substantial obstacles to
transparent, accessible academic research. While several large language models,
such as LLaMA, have been open-sourced by the community, these predominantly
focus on English corpora, limiting their usefulness for other languages. In
this paper, we propose a method to augment LLaMA with capabilities for
understanding and generating Chinese text and its ability to follow
instructions. We achieve this by extending LLaMA's existing vocabulary with an
additional 20,000 Chinese tokens, thereby improving its encoding efficiency and
semantic understanding of Chinese. We further incorporate secondary
pre-training using Chinese data and fine-tune the model with Chinese
instruction datasets, significantly enhancing the model's ability to comprehend
and execute instructions. Our experimental results indicate that the newly
proposed model markedly enhances the original LLaMA's proficiency in
understanding and generating Chinese content. Additionally, the results on the
C-Eval dataset yield competitive performance among the models with several
times the size of ours. We have made our pre-trained models, training scripts,
and other resources available through GitHub, fostering open research for our
community. GitHub repository: https://github.com/ymcui/Chinese-LLaMA-Alpaca


Title: LLaMA-Adapter V2: Parameter-Efficient Visual Instruction Model
Summary:   How to efficiently transform large language models (LLMs) into instruction
followers is recently a popular research direction, while training LLM for
multi-modal reasoning remains less explored. Although the recent LLaMA-Adapter
demonstrates the potential to handle visual inputs with LLMs, it still cannot
generalize well to open-ended visual instructions and lags behind GPT-4. In
this paper, we present LLaMA-Adapter V2, a parameter-efficient visual
instruction model. Specifically, we first augment LLaMA-Adapter by unlocking
more learnable parameters (e.g., norm, bias and scale), which distribute the
instruction-following ability across the entire LLaMA model besides adapters.
Secondly, we propose an early fusion strategy to feed visual tokens only into
the early LLM layers, contributing to better visual knowledge incorporation.
Thirdly, a joint training paradigm of image-text pairs and
instruction-following data is introduced by optimizing disjoint groups of
learnable parameters. This strategy effectively alleviates the interference
between the two tasks of image-text alignment and instruction following and
achieves strong multi-modal reasoning with only a small-scale image-text and
instruction dataset. During inference, we incorporate additional expert models
(e.g. captioning/OCR systems) into LLaMA-Adapter to further enhance its image
understanding capability without incurring training costs. Compared to the
original LLaMA-Adapter, our LLaMA-Adapter V2 can perform open-ended multi-modal
instructions by merely introducing 14M parameters over LLaMA. The newly
designed framework also exhibits stronger language-only instruction-following
capabilities and even excels in chat interactions. Our code and models are
available at https://github.com/ZrrSkywalker/LLaMA-Adapter.


Title: Goat: Fine-tuned LLaMA Outperforms GPT-4 on Arithmetic Tasks
Summary:   We introduce Goat, a fine-tuned LLaMA model that significantly outperforms
GPT-4 on a range of arithmetic tasks. Fine-tuned on a synthetically generated
dataset, Goat achieves state-of-the-art performance on BIG-bench arithmetic
sub-task. In particular, the zero-shot Goat-7B matches or even surpasses the
accuracy achieved by the few-shot PaLM-540B. Surprisingly, Goat can achieve
near-perfect accuracy on large-number addition and subtraction through
supervised fine-tuning only, which is almost impossible with previous
pretrained language models, such as Bloom, OPT, GPT-NeoX, etc. We attribute
Goat's exceptional performance to LLaMA's consistent tokenization of numbers.
To tackle more challenging tasks like large-number multiplication and division,
we propose an approach that classifies tasks based on their learnability, and
subsequently decomposes unlearnable tasks, such as multi-digit multiplication
and division, into a series of learnable tasks by leveraging basic arithmetic
principles. We thoroughly examine the performance of our model, offering a
comprehensive evaluation of the effectiveness of our proposed decomposition
steps. Additionally, Goat-7B can be easily trained using LoRA on a 24GB VRAM
GPU, facilitating reproducibility for other researchers. We release our model,
dataset, and the Python script for dataset generation.


Title: Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning of LLaMA for the Clinical Domain
Summary:   Adapting pretrained language models to novel domains, such as clinical
applications, traditionally involves retraining their entire set of parameters.
However, this approach is increasingly proven to be impractical owing to the
substantial computational requirements associated with training such large
language models. To address this issue, Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning (PEFT)
techniques offer a viable solution by selectively fine-tuning a small subset of
additional parameters, significantly reducing the computational requirements
for domain adaptation. In this study, we propose Clinical LLaMA-LoRA, a PEFT
adapter layer built upon the open-sourced LLaMA model. Clinical LLaMA-LoRA is
trained using clinical notes obtained from the MIMIC-IV database, thereby
creating a specialised adapter designed for the clinical domain. Additionally,
we propose a two-step PEFT framework which fuses Clinical LLaMA-LoRA with
Downstream LLaMA-LoRA, another PEFT adapter specialised for downstream tasks.
We evaluate this framework on multiple clinical outcome prediction datasets,
comparing it to clinically trained language models. Our proposed framework
achieves a state-of-the-art AUROC score averaged across all clinical downstream
tasks. We observe substantial improvements of 6-9% AUROC score in the
large-scale multilabel classification tasks, such as diagnoses and procedures
classification.


Title: Llama 2: Open Foundation and Fine-Tuned Chat Models
Summary:   In this work, we develop and release Llama 2, a collection of pretrained and
fine-tuned large language models (LLMs) ranging in scale from 7 billion to 70
billion parameters. Our fine-tuned LLMs, called Llama 2-Chat, are optimized for
dialogue use cases. Our models outperform open-source chat models on most
benchmarks we tested, and based on our human evaluations for helpfulness and
safety, may be a suitable substitute for closed-source models. We provide a
detailed description of our approach to fine-tuning and safety improvements of
Llama 2-Chat in order to enable the community to build on our work and
contribute to the responsible development of LLMs.


Title: PUMA: Secure Inference of LLaMA-7B in Five Minutes
Summary:   With ChatGPT as a representative, tons of companies have began to provide
services based on large Transformers models. However, using such a service
inevitably leak users' prompts to the model provider. Previous studies have
studied secure inference for Transformer models using secure multiparty
computation (MPC), where model parameters and clients' prompts are kept secret.
Despite this, these frameworks are still limited in terms of model performance,
efficiency, and deployment. To address these limitations, we propose framework
PUMA to enable fast and secure Transformer model inference. Our framework
designs high quality approximations for expensive functions such as GeLU and
softmax, and significantly reduce the cost of secure inference while preserving
the model performance. Additionally, we design secure Embedding and LayerNorm
procedures that faithfully implement the desired functionality without
undermining the Transformer architecture. PUMA is about $2\times$ faster than
the state-of-the-art framework MPCFORMER(ICLR 2023) and has similar accuracy as
plaintext models without fine-tuning (which the previous works failed to
achieve). PUMA can even evaluate LLaMA-7B in around 5 minutes to generate 1
token. To our best knowledge, this is the first time that a model with such a
parameter size is able to be evaluated under MPC. PUMA has been open-sourced in
the Github repository of SecretFlow-SPU.


Title: Financial News Analytics Using Fine-Tuned Llama 2 GPT Model
Summary:   The paper considers the possibility to fine-tune Llama 2 GPT large language
model (LLM) for the multitask analysis of financial news. For fine-tuning, the
PEFT/LoRA based approach was used. In the study, the model was fine-tuned for
the following tasks: analysing a text from financial market perspectives,
highlighting main points of a text, summarizing a text and extracting named
entities with appropriate sentiments. The obtained results show that the
fine-tuned Llama 2 model can perform a multitask financial news analysis with a
specified structure of response, part of response can be a structured text and
another part of data can have JSON format for further processing. Extracted
sentiments for named entities can be considered as predictive features in
supervised machine learning models with quantitative target variables.


Title: Making LLaMA SEE and Draw with SEED Tokenizer
Summary:   The great success of Large Language Models (LLMs) has expanded the potential
of multimodality, contributing to the gradual evolution of General Artificial
Intelligence (AGI). A true AGI agent should not only possess the capability to
perform predefined multi-tasks but also exhibit emergent abilities in an
open-world context. However, despite the considerable advancements made by
recent multimodal LLMs, they still fall short in effectively unifying
comprehension and generation tasks, let alone open-world emergent abilities. We
contend that the key to overcoming the present impasse lies in enabling text
and images to be represented and processed interchangeably within a unified
autoregressive Transformer. To this end, we introduce SEED, an elaborate image
tokenizer that empowers LLMs with the ability to SEE and Draw at the same time.
We identify two crucial design principles: (1) Image tokens should be
independent of 2D physical patch positions and instead be produced with a 1D
causal dependency, exhibiting intrinsic interdependence that aligns with the
left-to-right autoregressive prediction mechanism in LLMs. (2) Image tokens
should capture high-level semantics consistent with the degree of semantic
abstraction in words, and be optimized for both discriminativeness and
reconstruction during the tokenizer training phase. With SEED tokens, LLM is
able to perform scalable multimodal autoregression under its original training
recipe, i.e., next-word prediction. SEED-LLaMA is therefore produced by
large-scale pretraining and instruction tuning on the interleaved textual and
visual data, demonstrating impressive performance on a broad range of
multimodal comprehension and generation tasks. More importantly, SEED-LLaMA has
exhibited compositional emergent abilities such as multi-turn in-context
multimodal generation, acting like your AI assistant.


Title: Sheared LLaMA: Accelerating Language Model Pre-training via Structured
  Pruning
Summary:   The popularity of LLaMA (Touvron et al., 2023a;b) and other recently emerged
moderate-sized large language models (LLMs) highlights the potential of
building smaller yet powerful LLMs. Regardless, the cost of training such
models from scratch on trillions of tokens remains high. In this work, we study
structured pruning as an effective means to develop smaller LLMs from
pre-trained, larger models. Our approach employs two key techniques: (1)
targeted structured pruning, which prunes a larger model to a specified target
shape by removing layers, heads, and intermediate and hidden dimensions in an
end-to-end manner, and (2) dynamic batch loading, which dynamically updates the
composition of sampled data in each training batch based on varying losses
across different domains. We demonstrate the efficacy of our approach by
presenting the Sheared-LLaMA series, pruning the LLaMA2-7B model down to 1.3B
and 2.7B parameters. Sheared-LLaMA models outperform state-of-the-art
open-source models of equivalent sizes, such as Pythia, INCITE, and OpenLLaMA
models, on a wide range of downstream and instruction tuning evaluations, while
requiring only 3% of compute compared to training such models from scratch.
This work provides compelling evidence that leveraging existing LLMs with
structured pruning is a far more cost-effective approach for building smaller
LLMs.


Title: Fine-Tuning LLaMA for Multi-Stage Text Retrieval
Summary:   The effectiveness of multi-stage text retrieval has been solidly demonstrated
since before the era of pre-trained language models. However, most existing
studies utilize models that predate recent advances in large language models
(LLMs). This study seeks to explore potential improvements that
state-of-the-art LLMs can bring. We conduct a comprehensive study, fine-tuning
the latest LLaMA model both as a dense retriever (RepLLaMA) and as a pointwise
reranker (RankLLaMA) for both passage retrieval and document retrieval using
the MS MARCO datasets. Our findings demonstrate that the effectiveness of large
language models indeed surpasses that of smaller models. Additionally, since
LLMs can inherently handle longer contexts, they can represent entire documents
holistically, obviating the need for traditional segmenting and pooling
strategies. Furthermore, evaluations on BEIR demonstrate that our
RepLLaMA-RankLLaMA pipeline exhibits strong zero-shot effectiveness. Model
checkpoints from this study are available on HuggingFace.


Title: BadLlama: cheaply removing safety fine-tuning from Llama 2-Chat 13B
Summary:   Llama 2-Chat is a collection of large language models that Meta developed and
released to the public. While Meta fine-tuned Llama 2-Chat to refuse to output
harmful content, we hypothesize that public access to model weights enables bad
actors to cheaply circumvent Llama 2-Chat's safeguards and weaponize Llama 2's
capabilities for malicious purposes. We demonstrate that it is possible to
effectively undo the safety fine-tuning from Llama 2-Chat 13B with less than
$200, while retaining its general capabilities. Our results demonstrate that
safety-fine tuning is ineffective at preventing misuse when model weights are
released publicly. Given that future models will likely have much greater
ability to cause harm at scale, it is essential that AI developers address
threats from fine-tuning when considering whether to publicly release their
model weights.


Title: Tamil-Llama: A New Tamil Language Model Based on Llama 2
Summary:   Language modeling has witnessed remarkable advancements in recent years, with
Large Language Models (LLMs) like ChatGPT setting unparalleled benchmarks in
human-like text generation. However, a prevailing limitation is the
underrepresentation of languages like Tamil in these cutting-edge models,
leading to suboptimal performance in diverse linguistic contexts. This paper
addresses this lacuna, enhancing the open-source LLaMA model with an addition
of 16,000 Tamil tokens, aiming to achieve superior text generation and
comprehension in the Tamil language. We strategically employ the LoRA
methodology for efficient model training on a comprehensive Tamil corpus,
ensuring computational feasibility and model robustness. Moreover, we introduce
a Tamil-translated version of the Alpaca dataset and a subset of the OpenOrca
dataset tailored for instruction fine-tuning. Our results showcase significant
performance improvements in Tamil text generation, with potential implications
for the broader landscape of LLMs in Indian languages. We further underscore
our commitment to open research by making our models, datasets, and code
publicly accessible, fostering further innovations in language modeling.


Title: Beyond Surface: Probing LLaMA Across Scales and Layers
Summary:   This paper presents an in-depth analysis of Large Language Models (LLMs),
focusing on LLaMA, a prominent open-source foundational model in natural
language processing. Instead of assessing LLaMA through its generative output,
we design multiple-choice tasks to probe its intrinsic understanding in
high-order tasks such as reasoning and computation. We examine the model
horizontally, comparing different sizes, and vertically, assessing different
layers. We unveil several key and uncommon findings based on the designed
probing tasks: (1) Horizontally, enlarging model sizes almost could not
automatically impart additional knowledge or computational prowess. Instead, it
can enhance reasoning abilities, especially in math problem solving, and helps
reduce hallucinations, but only beyond certain size thresholds; (2) In vertical
analysis, the lower layers of LLaMA lack substantial arithmetic and factual
knowledge, showcasing logical thinking, multilingual and recognitive abilities,
with top layers housing most computational power and real-world knowledge.


Title: Purple Llama CyberSecEval: A Secure Coding Benchmark for Language Models
Summary:   This paper presents CyberSecEval, a comprehensive benchmark developed to help
bolster the cybersecurity of Large Language Models (LLMs) employed as coding
assistants. As what we believe to be the most extensive unified cybersecurity
safety benchmark to date, CyberSecEval provides a thorough evaluation of LLMs
in two crucial security domains: their propensity to generate insecure code and
their level of compliance when asked to assist in cyberattacks. Through a case
study involving seven models from the Llama 2, Code Llama, and OpenAI GPT large
language model families, CyberSecEval effectively pinpointed key cybersecurity
risks. More importantly, it offered practical insights for refining these
models. A significant observation from the study was the tendency of more
advanced models to suggest insecure code, highlighting the critical need for
integrating security considerations in the development of sophisticated LLMs.
CyberSecEval, with its automated test case generation and evaluation pipeline
covers a broad scope and equips LLM designers and researchers with a tool to
broadly measure and enhance the cybersecurity safety properties of LLMs,
contributing to the development of more secure AI systems.


Title: LLAMA Millimeter and Submillimeter Observatory. Update on its Science
  Opportunities
Summary:   The Large Latin American Millimeter Array (LLAMA for short) is a joint
scientific and technological undertaking of Argentina and Brazil whose goal is
to install and to operate an observing facility capable of performing
observations of the Universe at millimeter and sub-millimeter wavelengths. It
will consist of a 12m ALMA-like antenna with the addition of two Nasmyth
cabins. LLAMA is located at 4850m above sea level in the Puna Saltenia, in the
northwest region of Argentina. When completed, LLAMA will be equipped with six
ALMA receivers covering Bands 1, 2+3, 5, 6, 7, and 9, which will populate the
two Nasmyth cabins. We summarize here the main ideas related with the Science
that LLAMA could accomplish on different astronomical topics, gathered from the
experience of a group of international experts on each field.


Title: LLAMA: Nuclear stellar properties of Swift BAT AGN and matched inactive
  galaxies
Summary:   In a complete sample of local 14-195 keV selected AGNs and inactive galaxies,
matched by their host galaxy properties, we study the spatially resolved
stellar kinematics and luminosity distributions at near-infrared wavelengths on
scales of 10-150 pc, using SINFONI on the VLT. In this paper, we present the
first half of the sample, which comprises 13 galaxies, 8 AGNs and 5 inactive
galaxies. The stellar velocity fields show a disk-like rotating pattern, for
which the kinematic position angle is in agreement with the photometric
position angle obtained from large scale images. For this set of galaxies, the
stellar surface brightness of the inactive galaxy sample is generally
comparable to the matched sample of AGN but extends to lower surface
brightness. After removal of the bulge contribution, we find a nuclear stellar
light excess with an extended nuclear disk structure, and which exhibits a
size-luminosity relation. While we expect the excess luminosity to be
associated with a dynamically cooler young stellar population, we do not
typically see a matching drop in dispersion. This may be because these galaxies
have pseudo-bulges in which the intrinsic dispersion increases towards the
centre. And although the young stars may have an impact in the observed
kinematics, their fraction is too small to dominate over the bulge and
compensate the increase in dispersion at small radii, so no dispersion drop is
seen. Finally, we find no evidence for a difference in the stellar kinematics
and nuclear stellar luminosity excess between these active and inactive
galaxies.


Title: LLAMA: Normal star formation efficiencies of molecular gas in the
  centres of luminous Seyfert galaxies
Summary:   Using new APEX and JCMT spectroscopy of the CO 2-1 line, we undertake a
controlled study of cold molecular gas in moderately luminous Active Galactic
Nuclei (AGN) and inactive galaxies from the Luminous Local AGN with Matched
Analogs (LLAMA) survey. We use spatially resolved infrared photometry of the
LLAMA galaxies from 2MASS, WISE, IRAS & Herschel, corrected for nuclear
emission using multi-component spectral energy distribution (SED) fits, to
examine the dust-reprocessed star-formation rates (SFRs), molecular gas
fractions and star formation efficiencies (SFEs) over their central 1 - 3 kpc.
We find that the gas fractions and central SFEs of both active and inactive
galaxies are similar when controlling for host stellar mass and morphology
(Hubble type). The equivalent central molecular gas depletion times are
consistent with the discs of normal spiral galaxies in the local Universe.
Despite energetic arguments that the AGN in LLAMA should be capable of
disrupting the observable cold molecular gas in their central environments, our
results indicate that nuclear radiation only couples weakly with this phase. We
find a mild preference for obscured AGN to contain higher amounts of central
molecular gas, which suggests a connection between AGN obscuration and the
gaseous environment of the nucleus. Systems with depressed SFEs are not found
among the LLAMA AGN. We speculate that the processes that sustain the collapse
of molecular gas into dense pre-stellar cores may also be a prerequisite for
the inflow of material on to AGN accretion disks.


Title: Low-Latency Algorithm for Multi-messenger Astrophysics (LLAMA) with
  Gravitational-Wave and High-Energy Neutrino Candidates
Summary:   We describe in detail the online data analysis pipeline that was used in the
multi-messenger search for common sources of gravitational waves (GWs) and
high-energy neutrinos (HENs) during the second observing period (O2) of
Advanced LIGO and Advanced Virgo. Beyond providing added scientific insight
into source events, low-latency coincident HENs can offer better localization
than GWs alone, allowing for faster electromagnetic follow-up. Transitioning
GW+HEN analyses to low-latency, automated pipelines is therefore
mission-critical for future multi-messenger efforts. The O2 Low-Latency
Algorithm for Multi-messenger Astrophysics (\pipeline) also served as a
proof-of-concept for future online GW+HEN searches and led to a codebase that
can handle other messengers as well. During O2, the pipeline was used to take
LIGO/Virgo GW candidates as triggers and search in realtime for temporally
coincident HEN candidates provided by the IceCube Collaboration that fell
within the \ninetyCR of the reconstructed GW skymaps. The algorithm used NASA's
Gamma-ray Coordinates Network to report coincident alerts to LIGO/Virgo's
electromagnetic follow-up partners.


Title: LLAMA: The $M_{BH}$ - $σ_{\star}$ Relation of the most luminous
  local AGNs
Summary:   The $M_{BH}$ - $\sigma_{\star}$ relation is considered a result of
co-evolution between the host galaxies and their super-massive black holes. For
elliptical-bulge hosting inactive galaxies, this relation is well established,
but there is still a debate whether active galaxies follow the same relation.
In this paper, we estimate black hole masses for a sample of 19 local luminous
AGNs (LLAMA) in order to test their location on the $M_{BH}$ - $\sigma_{\star}$
relation. Super-massive black hole masses ($M_{BH}$) were derived from the
broad-line based relations for H$\alpha$, H$\beta$ and Pa$\beta$ emission line
profiles for the Type 1 AGNs. We compare the bulge stellar velocity dispersion
($\sigma_{\star}$) as determined from the Ca II triplet (CaT) with the
dispersion measured from the near-infrared CO (2-0) absorption features for
each AGN and find them to be consistent with each other. We apply an extinction
correction to the observed broad line fluxes and we correct the stellar
velocity dispersion by an average rotation contribution as determined from
spatially resolved stellar kinematic maps. The H$\alpha$-based black hole
masses of our sample of AGNs were estimated in the range 6.34 $\leq$
$\log{M_{BH}}$ $\leq$ 7.75 M$_\odot$ and the $\sigma_{\star CaT}$ estimates
range between 73 $\leq$ $\sigma_{\star CaT}$ $\leq$ 227 km s$^{-1}$. From the
so-constructed $M_{BH}$ - $\sigma_{\star}$ relation for our Type 1 AGNs, we
estimate the black hole masses for the Type 2 AGNs and the inactive galaxies in
our sample. In conclusion, we find that our sample of local luminous AGNs is
consistent with the $M_{BH}$ - $\sigma_{\star}$ relation of lower luminosity
AGNs and inactive galaxies, after correcting for dust extinction and the
rotational contribution to the stellar velocity dispersion.


Title: Llama: A Heterogeneous & Serverless Framework for Auto-Tuning Video
  Analytics Pipelines
Summary:   The proliferation of camera-enabled devices and large video repositories has
led to a diverse set of video analytics applications. These applications rely
on video pipelines, represented as DAGs of operations, to transform videos,
process extracted metadata, and answer questions like, "Is this intersection
congested?" The latency and resource efficiency of pipelines can be optimized
using configurable knobs for each operation (e.g., sampling rate, batch size,
or type of hardware used). However, determining efficient configurations is
challenging because (a) the configuration search space is exponentially large,
and (b) the optimal configuration depends on users' desired latency and cost
targets, (c) input video contents may exercise different paths in the DAG and
produce a variable amount intermediate results. Existing video analytics and
processing systems leave it to the users to manually configure operations and
select hardware resources.
  We present Llama: a heterogeneous and serverless framework for auto-tuning
video pipelines. Given an end-to-end latency target, Llama optimizes for cost
efficiency by (a) calculating a latency target for each operation invocation,
and (b) dynamically running a cost-based optimizer to assign configurations
across heterogeneous hardware that best meet the calculated per-invocation
latency target. This makes the problem of auto-tuning large video pipelines
tractable and allows us to handle input-dependent behavior, conditional
branches in the DAG, and execution variability. We describe the algorithms in
Llama and evaluate it on a cloud platform using serverless CPU and GPU
resources. We show that compared to state-of-the-art cluster and serverless
video analytics and processing systems, Llama achieves 7.8x lower latency and
16x cost reduction on average.


Title: LLAMA: Stellar populations in the nuclei of ultra hard X-ray selected
  AGN and matched inactive galaxies
Summary:   The relation between nuclear ($\lesssim$ 50 pc) star formation and nuclear
galactic activity is still elusive: theoretical models predict a link between
the two, but it is unclear whether active galactic nuclei (AGNs) should appear
at the same time, before or after nuclear star formation activity is ongoing.
We present a study of this relation in a complete, volume-limited sample of
nine of the most luminous ($\log L_{\rm 14-195 keV} > 10^{42.5}$ erg/s) local
AGNs (the LLAMA sample), including a sample of 18 inactive control galaxies (6
star-forming; 12 passive) that are matched by Hubble type, stellar mass (9.5
$\lesssim$ log M_star/M_sun $\lesssim$ 10.5), inclination and distance. This
allows us to calibrate our methods on the control sample and perform a
differential analysis between the AGN and control samples. We perform stellar
population synthesis on VLT/X-SHOOTER spectra in an aperture corresponding to a
physical radius of $\approx$ 150 pc. We find young ($\lesssim$ 30 Myr) stellar
populations in seven out of nine AGNs and in four out of six star-forming
control galaxies. In the non-star-forming control population, in contrast, only
two out of twelve galaxies show such a population. We further show that these
young populations are not indicative of ongoing star-formation, providing
evidence for models that see AGN activity as a consequence of nuclear star
formation. Based on the similar nuclear star-formation histories of AGNs and
star-forming control galaxies, we speculate that the latter may turn into the
former for some fraction of their time. Under this assumption, and making use
of the volume-completeness of our sample, we infer that the AGN phase lasts for
about 5 % of the nuclear starburst phase.


Title: Multi-Task Instruction Tuning of LLaMa for Specific Scenarios: A
  Preliminary Study on Writing Assistance
Summary:   Proprietary Large Language Models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, have garnered
significant attention due to their exceptional capabilities in handling a
diverse range of tasks. Recent studies demonstrate that open-sourced smaller
foundational models, such as 7B-size LLaMA, can also display remarkable
proficiency in tackling diverse tasks when fine-tuned using instruction-driven
data. In this work, we investigate a practical problem setting where the
primary focus is on one or a few particular tasks rather than general-purpose
instruction following, and explore whether LLMs can be beneficial and further
improved for such targeted scenarios. We choose the writing-assistant scenario
as the testbed, which includes seven writing tasks. We collect training data
for these tasks, reframe them in an instruction-following format, and
subsequently refine the LLM, specifically LLaMA, via instruction tuning.
Experimental results show that fine-tuning LLaMA on writing instruction data
significantly improves its ability on writing tasks. We also conduct more
experiments and analyses to offer insights for future work on effectively
fine-tuning LLaMA for specific scenarios. Finally, we initiate a discussion
regarding the necessity of employing LLMs for only one targeted task, taking
into account the efforts required for tuning and the resources consumed during
deployment.


Title: Music Understanding LLaMA: Advancing Text-to-Music Generation with
  Question Answering and Captioning
Summary:   Text-to-music generation (T2M-Gen) faces a major obstacle due to the scarcity
of large-scale publicly available music datasets with natural language
captions. To address this, we propose the Music Understanding LLaMA (MU-LLaMA),
capable of answering music-related questions and generating captions for music
files. Our model utilizes audio representations from a pretrained MERT model to
extract music features. However, obtaining a suitable dataset for training the
MU-LLaMA model remains challenging, as existing publicly accessible audio
question answering datasets lack the necessary depth for open-ended music
question answering. To fill this gap, we present a methodology for generating
question-answer pairs from existing audio captioning datasets and introduce the
MusicQA Dataset designed for answering open-ended music-related questions. The
experiments demonstrate that the proposed MU-LLaMA model, trained on our
designed MusicQA dataset, achieves outstanding performance in both music
question answering and music caption generation across various metrics,
outperforming current state-of-the-art (SOTA) models in both fields and
offering a promising advancement in the T2M-Gen research field.


Title: Fine-Tuning Llama 2 Large Language Models for Detecting Online Sexual
  Predatory Chats and Abusive Texts
Summary:   Detecting online sexual predatory behaviours and abusive language on social
media platforms has become a critical area of research due to the growing
concerns about online safety, especially for vulnerable populations such as
children and adolescents. Researchers have been exploring various techniques
and approaches to develop effective detection systems that can identify and
mitigate these risks. Recent development of large language models (LLMs) has
opened a new opportunity to address this problem more effectively. This paper
proposes an approach to detection of online sexual predatory chats and abusive
language using the open-source pretrained Llama 2 7B-parameter model, recently
released by Meta GenAI. We fine-tune the LLM using datasets with different
sizes, imbalance degrees, and languages (i.e., English, Roman Urdu and Urdu).
Based on the power of LLMs, our approach is generic and automated without a
manual search for a synergy between feature extraction and classifier design
steps like conventional methods in this domain. Experimental results show a
strong performance of the proposed approach, which performs proficiently and
consistently across three distinct datasets with five sets of experiments. This
study's outcomes indicate that the proposed method can be implemented in
real-world applications (even with non-English languages) for flagging sexual
predators, offensive or toxic content, hate speech, and discriminatory language
in online discussions and comments to maintain respectful internet or digital
communities. Furthermore, it can be employed for solving text classification
problems with other potential applications such as sentiment analysis, spam and
phishing detection, sorting legal documents, fake news detection, language
identification, user intent recognition, text-based product categorization,
medical record analysis, and resume screening.


Title: Safety-Tuned LLaMAs: Lessons From Improving the Safety of Large Language
  Models that Follow Instructions
Summary:   Training large language models to follow instructions makes them perform
better on a wide range of tasks, generally becoming more helpful. However, a
perfectly helpful model will follow even the most malicious instructions and
readily generate harmful content. In this paper, we raise concerns over the
safety of models that only emphasize helpfulness, not safety, in their
instruction-tuning. We show that several popular instruction-tuned models are
highly unsafe. Moreover, we show that adding just 3% safety examples (a few
hundred demonstrations) in the training set when fine-tuning a model like LLaMA
can substantially improve their safety. Our safety-tuning does not make models
significantly less capable or helpful as measured by standard benchmarks.
However, we do find a behavior of exaggerated safety, where too much
safety-tuning makes models refuse to respond to reasonable prompts that
superficially resemble unsafe ones. Our study sheds light on trade-offs in
training LLMs to follow instructions and exhibit safe behavior.


Title: Benchmarking quantized LLaMa-based models on the Brazilian Secondary
  School Exam
Summary:   Although Large Language Models (LLMs) represent a revolution in the way we
interact with computers, allowing the construction of complex questions and the
ability to reason over a sequence of statements, their use is restricted due to
the need for dedicated hardware for execution. In this study, we evaluate the
performance of LLMs based on the 7 and 13 billion LLaMA models, subjected to a
quantization process and run on home hardware. The models considered were
Alpaca, Koala, and Vicuna. To evaluate the effectiveness of these models, we
developed a database containing 1,006 questions from the ENEM (Brazilian
National Secondary School Exam). Our analysis revealed that the best performing
models achieved an accuracy of approximately 46% for the original texts of the
Portuguese questions and 49% on their English translations. In addition, we
evaluated the computational efficiency of the models by measuring the time
required for execution. On average, the 7 and 13 billion LLMs took
approximately 20 and 50 seconds, respectively, to process the queries on a
machine equipped with an AMD Ryzen 5 3600x processor


Title: Whispering LLaMA: A Cross-Modal Generative Error Correction Framework
  for Speech Recognition
Summary:   We introduce a new cross-modal fusion technique designed for generative error
correction in automatic speech recognition (ASR). Our methodology leverages
both acoustic information and external linguistic representations to generate
accurate speech transcription contexts. This marks a step towards a fresh
paradigm in generative error correction within the realm of n-best hypotheses.
Unlike the existing ranking-based rescoring methods, our approach adeptly uses
distinct initialization techniques and parameter-efficient algorithms to boost
ASR performance derived from pre-trained speech and text models. Through
evaluation across diverse ASR datasets, we evaluate the stability and
reproducibility of our fusion technique, demonstrating its improved word error
rate relative (WERR) performance in comparison to n-best hypotheses by
relatively 37.66%. To encourage future research, we have made our code and
pre-trained models open source at
https://github.com/Srijith-rkr/Whispering-LLaMA.


Title: LLaMA Rider: Spurring Large Language Models to Explore the Open World
Summary:   Recently, various studies have leveraged Large Language Models (LLMs) to help
decision-making and planning in environments, and try to align the LLMs'
knowledge with the world conditions. Nonetheless, the capacity of LLMs to
continuously acquire environmental knowledge and adapt in an open world remains
uncertain. In this paper, we propose an approach to spur LLMs to explore the
open world, gather experiences, and learn to improve their task-solving
capabilities. In this approach, a multi-round feedback-revision mechanism is
utilized to encourage LLMs to actively select appropriate revision actions
guided by feedback information from the environment. This facilitates
exploration and enhances the model's performance. Besides, we integrate
sub-task relabeling to assist LLMs in maintaining consistency in sub-task
planning and help the model learn the combinatorial nature between tasks,
enabling it to complete a wider range of tasks through training based on the
acquired exploration experiences. By evaluation in Minecraft, an open-ended
sandbox world, we demonstrate that our approach LLaMA-Rider enhances the
efficiency of the LLM in exploring the environment, and effectively improves
the LLM's ability to accomplish more tasks through fine-tuning with merely 1.3k
instances of collected data, showing minimal training costs compared to the
baseline using reinforcement learning.


Title: Accelerating LLaMA Inference by Enabling Intermediate Layer Decoding via
  Instruction Tuning with LITE
Summary:   Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable performance across a
wide variety of natural language tasks; however, their large size makes their
inference slow and computationally expensive. Focusing on this problem, we
propose to instruction tune LLMs with additional explicit losses from the
intermediate layers (LITE) and show that it enables these layers to acquire
'good' generation ability without affecting the generation ability of the final
layer. We perform 'dynamic confidence-based early exiting' at token level from
the intermediate layers which improves the efficiency of text generation
without compromising the quality of the generation. We conduct comprehensive
experiments by instruction tuning LLaMA-2 models on the Alpaca dataset and
holistically evaluate on four different human-instruction test sets. We show
that dynamic early exiting achieves consistent and considerable inference
computation cost improvements (37.86% for 7B and 46.35% for 13B model) while
maintaining the generation quality of the responses. We further conduct a
thorough analysis of the results over several important aspects, such as
comparing the semantic similarity of the outputs and dissecting the efficiency
improvements by comparing the number of tokens generated in the output. In
summary, our work contributes to improving the efficiency of LLM inference
while maintaining the generation quality, a crucial step en route to enabling
their widespread adoption.


Title: LoRA Fine-tuning Efficiently Undoes Safety Training in Llama 2-Chat 70B
Summary:   AI developers often apply safety alignment procedures to prevent the misuse
of their AI systems. For example, before Meta released Llama 2-Chat, a
collection of instruction fine-tuned large language models, they invested
heavily in safety training, incorporating extensive red-teaming and
reinforcement learning from human feedback. However, it remains unclear how
well safety training guards against model misuse when attackers have access to
model weights. We explore the robustness of safety training in language models
by subversively fine-tuning the public weights of Llama 2-Chat. We employ
low-rank adaptation (LoRA) as an efficient fine-tuning method. With a budget of
less than $200 per model and using only one GPU, we successfully undo the
safety training of Llama 2-Chat models of sizes 7B, 13B, and 70B. Specifically,
our fine-tuning technique significantly reduces the rate at which the model
refuses to follow harmful instructions. We achieve a refusal rate below 1% for
our 70B Llama 2-Chat model on two refusal benchmarks. Our fine-tuning method
retains general performance, which we validate by comparing our fine-tuned
models against Llama 2-Chat across two benchmarks. Additionally, we present a
selection of harmful outputs produced by our models. While there is
considerable uncertainty about the scope of risks from current models, it is
likely that future models will have significantly more dangerous capabilities,
including the ability to hack into critical infrastructure, create dangerous
bio-weapons, or autonomously replicate and adapt to new environments. We show
that subversive fine-tuning is practical and effective, and hence argue that
evaluating risks from fine-tuning should be a core part of risk assessments for
releasing model weights.


Title: Llamas Know What GPTs Don't Show: Surrogate Models for Confidence
  Estimation
Summary:   To maintain user trust, large language models (LLMs) should signal low
confidence on examples where they are incorrect, instead of misleading the
user. The standard approach of estimating confidence is to use the softmax
probabilities of these models, but as of November 2023, state-of-the-art LLMs
such as GPT-4 and Claude-v1.3 do not provide access to these probabilities. We
first study eliciting confidence linguistically -- asking an LLM for its
confidence in its answer -- which performs reasonably (80.5% AUC on GPT-4
averaged across 12 question-answering datasets -- 7% above a random baseline)
but leaves room for improvement. We then explore using a surrogate confidence
model -- using a model where we do have probabilities to evaluate the original
model's confidence in a given question. Surprisingly, even though these
probabilities come from a different and often weaker model, this method leads
to higher AUC than linguistic confidences on 9 out of 12 datasets. Our best
method composing linguistic confidences and surrogate model probabilities gives
state-of-the-art confidence estimates on all 12 datasets (84.6% average AUC on
GPT-4).


Title: HELLaMA: LLaMA-based Table to Text Generation by Highlighting the
  Important Evidence
Summary:   Large models have demonstrated significant progress across various domains,
particularly in tasks related to text generation. In the domain of Table to
Text, many Large Language Model (LLM)-based methods currently resort to
modifying prompts to invoke public APIs, incurring potential costs and
information leaks. With the advent of open-source large models, fine-tuning
LLMs has become feasible. In this study, we conducted parameter-efficient
fine-tuning on the LLaMA2 model. Distinguishing itself from previous
fine-tuning-based table-to-text methods, our approach involves injecting
reasoning information into the input by emphasizing table-specific row data.
Our model consists of two modules: 1) a table reasoner that identifies relevant
row evidence, and 2) a table summarizer that generates sentences based on the
highlighted table. To facilitate this, we propose a search strategy to
construct reasoning labels for training the table reasoner. On both the FetaQA
and QTSumm datasets, our approach achieved state-of-the-art results.
Additionally, we observed that highlighting input tables significantly enhances
the model's performance and provides valuable interpretability.


Title: SecureBERT and LLAMA 2 Empowered Control Area Network Intrusion
  Detection and Classification
Summary:   Numerous studies have proved their effective strength in detecting Control
Area Network (CAN) attacks. In the realm of understanding the human semantic
space, transformer-based models have demonstrated remarkable effectiveness.
Leveraging pre-trained transformers has become a common strategy in various
language-related tasks, enabling these models to grasp human semantics more
comprehensively. To delve into the adaptability evaluation on pre-trained
models for CAN intrusion detection, we have developed two distinct models:
CAN-SecureBERT and CAN-LLAMA2. Notably, our CAN-LLAMA2 model surpasses the
state-of-the-art models by achieving an exceptional performance 0.999993 in
terms of balanced accuracy, precision detection rate, F1 score, and a
remarkably low false alarm rate of 3.10e-6. Impressively, the false alarm rate
is 52 times smaller than that of the leading model, MTH-IDS (Multitiered Hybrid
Intrusion Detection System). Our study underscores the promise of employing a
Large Language Model as the foundational model, while incorporating adapters
for other cybersecurity-related tasks and maintaining the model's inherent
language-related capabilities.


Title: Localizing Lying in Llama: Understanding Instructed Dishonesty on
  True-False Questions Through Prompting, Probing, and Patching
Summary:   Large language models (LLMs) demonstrate significant knowledge through their
outputs, though it is often unclear whether false outputs are due to a lack of
knowledge or dishonesty. In this paper, we investigate instructed dishonesty,
wherein we explicitly prompt LLaMA-2-70b-chat to lie. We perform prompt
engineering to find which prompts best induce lying behavior, and then use
mechanistic interpretability approaches to localize where in the network this
behavior occurs. Using linear probing and activation patching, we localize five
layers that appear especially important for lying. We then find just 46
attention heads within these layers that enable us to causally intervene such
that the lying model instead answers honestly. We show that these interventions
work robustly across many prompts and dataset splits. Overall, our work
contributes a greater understanding of dishonesty in LLMs so that we may hope
to prevent it.


Title: What Do Llamas Really Think? Revealing Preference Biases in Language
  Model Representations
Summary:   Do large language models (LLMs) exhibit sociodemographic biases, even when
they decline to respond? To bypass their refusal to "speak," we study this
research question by probing contextualized embeddings and exploring whether
this bias is encoded in its latent representations. We propose a logistic
Bradley-Terry probe which predicts word pair preferences of LLMs from the
words' hidden vectors. We first validate our probe on three pair preference
tasks and thirteen LLMs, where we outperform the word embedding association
test (WEAT), a standard approach in testing for implicit association, by a
relative 27% in error rate. We also find that word pair preferences are best
represented in the middle layers. Next, we transfer probes trained on harmless
tasks (e.g., pick the larger number) to controversial ones (compare
ethnicities) to examine biases in nationality, politics, religion, and gender.
We observe substantial bias for all target classes: for instance, the Mistral
model implicitly prefers Europe to Africa, Christianity to Judaism, and
left-wing to right-wing politics, despite declining to answer. This suggests
that instruction fine-tuning does not necessarily debias contextualized
embeddings. Our codebase is at https://github.com/castorini/biasprobe.


Title: Llama Guard: LLM-based Input-Output Safeguard for Human-AI Conversations
Summary:   We introduce Llama Guard, an LLM-based input-output safeguard model geared
towards Human-AI conversation use cases. Our model incorporates a safety risk
taxonomy, a valuable tool for categorizing a specific set of safety risks found
in LLM prompts (i.e., prompt classification). This taxonomy is also
instrumental in classifying the responses generated by LLMs to these prompts, a
process we refer to as response classification. For the purpose of both prompt
and response classification, we have meticulously gathered a dataset of high
quality. Llama Guard, a Llama2-7b model that is instruction-tuned on our
collected dataset, albeit low in volume, demonstrates strong performance on
existing benchmarks such as the OpenAI Moderation Evaluation dataset and
ToxicChat, where its performance matches or exceeds that of currently available
content moderation tools. Llama Guard functions as a language model, carrying
out multi-class classification and generating binary decision scores.
Furthermore, the instruction fine-tuning of Llama Guard allows for the
customization of tasks and the adaptation of output formats. This feature
enhances the model's capabilities, such as enabling the adjustment of taxonomy
categories to align with specific use cases, and facilitating zero-shot or
few-shot prompting with diverse taxonomies at the input. We are making Llama
Guard model weights available and we encourage researchers to further develop
and adapt them to meet the evolving needs of the community for AI safety.


Title: Enhanced E-Commerce Attribute Extraction: Innovating with Decorative
  Relation Correction and LLAMA 2.0-Based Annotation
Summary:   The rapid proliferation of e-commerce platforms accentuates the need for
advanced search and retrieval systems to foster a superior user experience.
Central to this endeavor is the precise extraction of product attributes from
customer queries, enabling refined search, comparison, and other crucial
e-commerce functionalities. Unlike traditional Named Entity Recognition (NER)
tasks, e-commerce queries present a unique challenge owing to the intrinsic
decorative relationship between product types and attributes. In this study, we
propose a pioneering framework that integrates BERT for classification, a
Conditional Random Fields (CRFs) layer for attribute value extraction, and
Large Language Models (LLMs) for data annotation, significantly advancing
attribute recognition from customer inquiries. Our approach capitalizes on the
robust representation learning of BERT, synergized with the sequence decoding
prowess of CRFs, to adeptly identify and extract attribute values. We introduce
a novel decorative relation correction mechanism to further refine the
extraction process based on the nuanced relationships between product types and
attributes inherent in e-commerce data. Employing LLMs, we annotate additional
data to expand the model's grasp and coverage of diverse attributes. Our
methodology is rigorously validated on various datasets, including Walmart,
BestBuy's e-commerce NER dataset, and the CoNLL dataset, demonstrating
substantial improvements in attribute recognition performance. Particularly,
the model showcased promising results during a two-month deployment in
Walmart's Sponsor Product Search, underscoring its practical utility and
effectiveness.


Title: LLaMAntino: LLaMA 2 Models for Effective Text Generation in Italian
  Language
Summary:   Large Language Models represent state-of-the-art linguistic models designed
to equip computers with the ability to comprehend natural language. With its
exceptional capacity to capture complex contextual relationships, the LLaMA
(Large Language Model Meta AI) family represents a novel advancement in the
field of natural language processing by releasing foundational models designed
to improve the natural language understanding abilities of the transformer
architecture thanks to their large amount of trainable parameters (7, 13, and
70 billion parameters). In many natural language understanding tasks, these
models obtain the same performances as private company models such as OpenAI
Chat-GPT with the advantage to make publicly available weights and code for
research and commercial uses. In this work, we investigate the possibility of
Language Adaptation for LLaMA models, explicitly focusing on addressing the
challenge of Italian Language coverage. Adopting an open science approach, we
explore various tuning approaches to ensure a high-quality text generated in
Italian suitable for common tasks in this underrepresented language in the
original models' datasets. We aim to release effective text generation models
with strong linguistic properties for many tasks that seem challenging using
multilingual or general-purpose LLMs. By leveraging an open science philosophy,
this study contributes to Language Adaptation strategies for the Italian
language by introducing the novel LLaMAntino family of Italian LLMs.


Title: The Lensed Lyman-Alpha MUSE Arcs Sample (LLAMAS) : I. Characterisation
  of extended Lyman-alpha haloes and spatial offsets
Summary:   We present the Lensed Lyman-Alpha MUSE Arcs Sample (LLAMAS) selected from
MUSE and HST observations of 17 lensing clusters. The sample consists of 603
continuum-faint (-23<M_UV<-14) lensed Lyman-alpha emitters (producing 959
images) with spectroscopic redshifts between 2.9 and 6.7. Combining the power
of cluster magnification with 3D spectroscopic observations, we are able to
reveal the resolved morphological properties of 268 Lyman-alpha emitters. We
use a forward modelling approach to model both Lyman-alpha and rest-frame UV
continuum emission profiles in the source plane and measure spatial extent,
ellipticity and spatial offsets between UV and Lyman-alpha emission. We find a
significant correlation between UV continuum and Lyman-alpha spatial extent.
Our characterization of the Lyman-alpha haloes indicates that the halo size is
linked to the physical properties of the host galaxy (SFR, Lyman-alpha EW and
Lyman-alpha line FWHM). We find that 48% of Lyman-alpha haloes are best-fitted
by an elliptical emission distribution with a median axis ratio of q=0.48. We
observe that 60% of galaxies detected both in UV and Lyman-alpha emission show
a significant spatial offset (Delta). We measure a median offset of Delta= 0.58
\pm 0.14 kpc for the entire sample. By comparing the spatial offset values with
the size of the UV component, we show that 40% of the offsets could be due to
star-forming sub-structures in the UV component, while the larger offsets are
more likely due to larger distance processes such as scattering effects inside
the circumgalactic medium or emission from faint satellites or merging
galaxies. Comparisons with a zoom-in radiative hydrodynamics simulation of a
typical Lyman-alpha emitting galaxy show a good agreement with LLAMAS galaxies
and indicate that bright star-formation clumps and satellite galaxies could
produce a similar spatial offsets distribution. (abridged)


Title: ChatDoctor: A Medical Chat Model Fine-Tuned on a Large Language Model
  Meta-AI (LLaMA) Using Medical Domain Knowledge
Summary:   The primary aim of this research was to address the limitations observed in
the medical knowledge of prevalent large language models (LLMs) such as
ChatGPT, by creating a specialized language model with enhanced accuracy in
medical advice. We achieved this by adapting and refining the large language
model meta-AI (LLaMA) using a large dataset of 100,000 patient-doctor dialogues
sourced from a widely used online medical consultation platform. These
conversations were cleaned and anonymized to respect privacy concerns. In
addition to the model refinement, we incorporated a self-directed information
retrieval mechanism, allowing the model to access and utilize real-time
information from online sources like Wikipedia and data from curated offline
medical databases. The fine-tuning of the model with real-world patient-doctor
interactions significantly improved the model's ability to understand patient
needs and provide informed advice. By equipping the model with self-directed
information retrieval from reliable online and offline sources, we observed
substantial improvements in the accuracy of its responses. Our proposed
ChatDoctor, represents a significant advancement in medical LLMs, demonstrating
a significant improvement in understanding patient inquiries and providing
accurate advice. Given the high stakes and low error tolerance in the medical
field, such enhancements in providing accurate and reliable information are not
only beneficial but essential.


Title: Baby Llama: knowledge distillation from an ensemble of teachers trained
  on a small dataset with no performance penalty
Summary:   We present our submission to the BabyLM challenge, whose goal was to improve
the sample efficiency of language models. We trained an ensemble consisting of
a GPT-2 and small LLaMA models on the developmentally-plausible, 10M-word
BabyLM dataset, then distilled it into a small, 58M-parameter LLaMA model,
which exceeds in performance both of its teachers as well as a similar model
trained without distillation. This suggests that distillation can not only
retain the full performance of the teacher model when the latter is trained on
a sufficiently small dataset; it can exceed it, and lead to significantly
better performance than direct training.


Title: Sorted LLaMA: Unlocking the Potential of Intermediate Layers of Large
  Language Models for Dynamic Inference Using Sorted Fine-Tuning (SoFT)
Summary:   The rapid advancement of large language models (LLMs) has revolutionized
natural language processing (NLP). While these models excel at understanding
and generating human-like text, their widespread deployment can be
prohibitively expensive. SortedNet is a recent training technique for enabling
dynamic inference for deep neural networks. It leverages network modularity to
create sub-models with varying computational loads, sorting them based on
computation/accuracy characteristics in a nested manner. We extend SortedNet to
generative NLP tasks, making large language models dynamic without any
pretraining and by only replacing standard Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) with
Sorted Fine-Tuning (SoFT) at the same costs. Our approach boosts model
efficiency, eliminating the need for multiple models for various scenarios
during inference. We show that using this approach, we are able to unlock the
potential of intermediate layers of transformers in generating the target
output. Our sub-models remain integral components of the original model,
minimizing storage requirements and transition costs between different
computational/latency budgets. By applying this approach on LLaMa 2 13B for
tuning on the Stanford Alpaca dataset and comparing it to normal tuning and
early exit via PandaLM benchmark, we show that Sorted Fine-Tuning can deliver
models twice as fast as the original model while maintaining or exceeding
performance.


Title: ChatGPT, Llama, can you write my report? An experiment on assisted
  digital forensics reports written using (Local) Large Language Models
Summary:   Generative AIs, especially Large Language Models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT or
Llama, have advanced significantly, positioning them as valuable tools for
digital forensics. While initial studies have explored the potential of ChatGPT
in the context of investigations, the question of to what extent LLMs can
assist the forensic report writing process remains unresolved. To answer the
question, this article first examines forensic reports with the goal of
generalization (e.g., finding the `average structure' of a report). We then
evaluate the strengths and limitations of LLMs for generating the different
parts of the forensic report using a case study. This work thus provides
valuable insights into the automation of report writing, a critical facet of
digital forensics investigations. We conclude that combined with thorough
proofreading and corrections, LLMs may assist practitioners during the report
writing process but at this point cannot replace them.


Title: Battle of the Large Language Models: Dolly vs LLaMA vs Vicuna vs Guanaco
  vs Bard vs ChatGPT -- A Text-to-SQL Parsing Comparison
Summary:   The success of ChatGPT has ignited an AI race, with researchers striving to
develop new large language models (LLMs) that can match or surpass the language
understanding and generation abilities of commercial ones. In recent times, a
number of models have emerged, claiming performance near that of GPT-3.5 or
GPT-4 through various instruction-tuning methods. As practitioners of
Text-to-SQL parsing, we are grateful for their valuable contributions to
open-source research. However, it is important to approach these claims with a
sense of scrutiny and ascertain the actual effectiveness of these models.
Therefore, we pit six popular large language models against each other,
systematically evaluating their Text-to-SQL parsing capability on nine
benchmark datasets with five different prompting strategies, covering both
zero-shot and few-shot scenarios. Regrettably, the open-sourced models fell
significantly short of the performance achieved by closed-source models like
GPT-3.5, highlighting the need for further work to bridge the performance gap
between these models.


